Added doc page for authenicateRequest() (#295)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/references/backend/sessions/authenticate-request.mdx

---

> title: authneticateRequest() | User Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: authenticateRequest()
```

description: Networkless method to verify a token passed from the frontend.
---

> # `authenicateRequest()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# `authenticateRequest()`
```

> Method to authenicate a token passed from the frontend. Networkless if the `secretKey` or `jwtKey` are provided, otherwise performs network call to retreieve the JWKS from Clerk's Backend API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authenticates a token passed from the frontend. Networkless if the `secretKey` or `jwtKey` are provided. Otherwise, performs a network call to retrieve the JWKS from Clerk's Backend API.
```

```tsx
const authStatus = await clerkClient.authenticateRequest();
```

## `AuthenticateRequestParams`

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | `request` | `IncomingMessage` | `req` object |

Reviewer 2: `Request` instead of `IncomingMessage`

| `secretKey?` | `string` | Secret Key (same as apiKey) |
| `publishableKey?` | `string` | Clerk Publishable Key |

> | `domain?` | `string` | Domain for the application |

Reviewer 2: I think this is also part of multi-domain setup.
cc: @panteliselef

Author: @panteliselef Just looking for feedback on the above. Thanks.

Reviewer 3: Yes, this is the part of the multidomain feature. But the description seems correct. In this field we need to pass the domain that the satellite application will be hosted at.

if my satellite app is accessible from https://satellite.dev, i need to pass satellite.dev as the value. For dev and localhost you can pass f.e. localhost:3000

> | `isSatellite?` | `boolean` | Is this a satellite domain in a multiple domain setup? |

Reviewer 2: in the next props you are referring to `multi-domain setup` instead of `multiple domain setup`. I would suggest we keep the same wording for consistency.

| `proxyUrl?` | `string` | Proxy URL from multi-domain setup|
| `signInUrl?` | `string` | Sign In URL from multi-domain setup |  
| `jwtKey?` | `string` |  |

> | `audience?` | `??` | Audience |

Reviewer 2: `audience: string | string[];`

> | `secretKey?` | `string` | Secret Key (same as apiKey) |
> | `publishableKey?` | `string` | Clerk Publishable Key |
> | `domain?` | `string` | Domain for the application. For development you can pass the localhost your application is running on. For example: localhost:3001|
> | `isSatellite?` | `boolean` | True if this a satellite domain in a multi-domain setup. |
> | `proxyUrl?` | `string` | Proxy URL from multi-domain setup|
> | `signInUrl?` | `string` | Sign In URL from multi-domain setup |  
> | `jwtKey?` | `string` | The PRM public key from the API Keys -> Advanced -> JWT public key section of your Dashboard.  |
> | `audience?` | `string \| string[]` | Audience |
> | `frontendApi?` | `string` | Publishable Key (deprecated, use publishableKey) | 
> | `apiKey?` | `string` | Api Key (deprecreated, use secretKey) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `secretKey?` | `string` | The Clerk secret key from the [API Keys](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=api-keys) page in the Clerk Dashboard.  |
| `publishableKey?` | `string` | The Clerk publishable key from the [API Keys](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=api-keys) page in the Clerk Dashboard. |
| `domain?` | `string` | The domain for the application. For development, you can pass the localhost your application is running on. For example: `localhost:3001` |
| `isSatellite?` | `boolean` | Set to `true` if the instance is a satellite domain in a multi-domain setup. |
| `proxyUrl?` | `string` | The proxy URL from a multi-domain setup. |
| `signInUrl?` | `string` | The sign-in URL from a multi-domain setup. |  
| `jwtKey?` | `string` | The PRM public key from the **[API Keys](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=api-keys) page -> Advanced -> JWT public key** section of the Clerk Dashboard.  |
| `audience?` | `string \| string[]` | A string of list of audiences. |
| `frontendApi?` | `string` | The Clerk publishable key (deprecated in favor of `publishableKey`) | 
| `apiKey?` | `string` | The Clerk API key (deprecated in favor of `secretKey`) |
```
